# Pest-detection-in-Agricultural-Plantation-of-Cotton-crops-using-Convolutional-Neural-Network
India is a diverse country with 70% of its people depending upon agriculture. With the ever-increasing need for food and shelter, there is a drastic increase in the need for clothing as well. For this, the production of cotton crops also needs to be increased. Pests and crop diseases play a vital role in reducing the yield. Identification and classification of crop pests are essential to aid farmers. Manual detection of pests and the use of economical friendly pesticides may result in a reduction of the destruction caused to crops. The extra use of pesticides may reduce yield and will pollute the air and the soil of that region. As Maharashtra is the Manchester of cotton production, the proposed system focuses on pest detection on cotton crops. To address this issue, a convolutional neural network architecture is being applied to the mixture of images collected from farmer’s fields and open-source platforms. The data augmentation techniques are applied such as shear, rotation, brightening, translation, and zooming to avoid the network from overfitting. The CNN architecture learns and extracts high-level complex features in image classification applications instead of extracting handcrafted features by traditional methods. The results obtained from the proposed CNN model classifies the visuality of pests on cotton crops with a model accuracy of 91.54% and can be applied in the agriculture field.
